engineer-notes.md, before:

# AWS Backup with CDK

## High-level goals

Create an AWS Backup implementation that uses tags on DynamoDB resources to backup tables to an alternate region.

The solution should be deployable to multiple environments via an ADO pipeline.

In this case, the environments are separate AWS accounts.

The primary region is us-east-2. The backup region is us-west-1.

### Initial assumptions

- Table names and ARNs are not required
- The tag values can be identifiers enough
- Backup frequency is every 4 hours. (RPO is 4 hours)
- Backup retention is 90 days.
- Tags will already exist on the dynamo tables.
- Backup plan will not fail if no matching tags are found

### Initial Knowns

- Need to create 3 dynamo tables.
  - Two tables have correct tags for backup
  - One table has incorrect tags for backup
- Configure the cdk application.
- Use DOTENV and DOTENV-CLI (locally) to validate in multiple regions. Do one region at a time, to simulate initial promotion through environments
- Backup solution will be deployed in the alternate region

### Initial Unknowns

- If a table is deleted, how does this affect the backup?

- Does backup pick up tables in other regions?
  - NO

## DynamoDB Action Plan

- [x] Initialize the cdk application
  - [x] Do a basic app first, validate, then delete it
    - `cdk init app --language typescript`
  - [x] can this be done without a sub directory? NOPE
    - `cdk init cannot be run in a non-empty directory!`
- [x] Validate correct installation of the cdk application
- [x] Configure stack with account number and region, for now
- [x] Create 2 tables with CDK
- [x] Deploy the stack, validating correct account, profile configuration
- [x] Add backup tags to 2 tables, but omit from 1 table. Tag: {"backup": "4HourRPO"}
- [x] Deploy and validate tag application
- [x] Plan the backup plan iterations (creation, validation, externalizing variables)
- [x] Verify encryption
- [x] Enable PITR (point in time recovery)
- [x] Consolidate dynamo stacks
- [x] Create a 2nd non-backup table to test plan selection
- [ ] Create a 2nd backup table to test table deletion
- [ ] Create a 3rd backup table to test LSI backup
- [ ] Create a 4th backup table to test GSI backup
- [ ] Enable On-demand pricing mode

## AWS Backup Action Plan

- [x] Create isolated stack for backup plan
- [x] Install aws-backup package
- [x] Create backup vault, set policy to DESTROY (cdk sets it to RETAIN, which is different than other resources)
- [x] Create the backup plan selection
- [x] Create the resource selection, based on tags (4HourRPO)
- [x] Adjust the schedule for 4 hours
- [x] Adjust the retention for 90 days
- [ ] Test backing up LSI indexes
- [ ] Test backing up global secondary indexes
- [ ] Test deleting a table

## Assumptions challenged

- DynamoDB is not supported for cross-region backup!!
- Can only change the billing mode once per 24 hours!
  - It's best to configure this up front, changes get weird with this restriction

Commit message:

Add tables with LSI and GSI

engineer-notes.md, after:

# AWS Backup with CDK

## High-level goals

Create an AWS Backup implementation that uses tags on DynamoDB resources to backup tables to an alternate region.

The solution should be deployable to multiple environments via an ADO pipeline.

In this case, the environments are separate AWS accounts.

The primary region is us-east-2. The backup region is us-west-1.

### Initial assumptions

- Table names and ARNs are not required
- The tag values can be identifiers enough
- Backup frequency is every 4 hours. (RPO is 4 hours)
- Backup retention is 90 days.
- Tags will already exist on the dynamo tables.
- Backup plan will not fail if no matching tags are found

### Initial Knowns

- Need to create 3 dynamo tables.
  - Two tables have correct tags for backup
  - One table has incorrect tags for backup
- Configure the cdk application.
- Use DOTENV and DOTENV-CLI (locally) to validate in multiple regions. Do one region at a time, to simulate initial promotion through environments
- Backup solution will be deployed in the alternate region

### Initial Unknowns

- If a table is deleted, how does this affect the backup?

- Does backup pick up tables in other regions?
  - NO

## DynamoDB Action Plan

- [x] Initialize the cdk application
  - [x] Do a basic app first, validate, then delete it
    - `cdk init app --language typescript`
  - [x] can this be done without a sub directory? NOPE
    - `cdk init cannot be run in a non-empty directory!`
- [x] Validate correct installation of the cdk application
- [x] Configure stack with account number and region, for now
- [x] Create 2 tables with CDK
- [x] Deploy the stack, validating correct account, profile configuration
- [x] Add backup tags to 2 tables, but omit from 1 table. Tag: {"backup": "4HourRPO"}
- [x] Deploy and validate tag application
- [x] Plan the backup plan iterations (creation, validation, externalizing variables)
- [x] Verify encryption
- [x] Enable PITR (point in time recovery)
- [x] Consolidate dynamo stacks
- [x] Create a 2nd non-backup table to test plan selection
- [x] Create a 2nd backup table to test table deletion
- [x] Enable On-demand pricing mode for all tables
- [x] Create a 3rd backup table to test LSI backup https://bobbyhadz.com/blog/aws-cdk-dynamodb-table
- [x] Create a 4th backup table to test GSI backup https://bobbyhadz.com/blog/aws-cdk-add-global-secondary-index-dynamodb

## AWS Backup Action Plan

- [x] Create isolated stack for backup plan
- [x] Install aws-backup package
- [x] Create backup vault, set policy to DESTROY (cdk sets it to RETAIN, which is different than other resources)
- [x] Create the backup plan selection
- [x] Create the resource selection, based on tags (4HourRPO)
- [x] Adjust the schedule for 4 hours
- [x] Adjust the retention for 90 days
- [ ] Test backing up LSI indexes
- [ ] Test backing up global secondary indexes
- [ ] Test deleting a table
- [ ] Write a few basic tests for the backup stack

## Assumptions challenged

- DynamoDB is not supported for cross-region backup!!
- Can only change the billing mode once per 24 hours!
  - It's best to configure this up front, changes get weird with this restriction
- Can only update 1 GSI per table at a time, and they take time to create and become active
